Project 1: Breakout Game
Date Created: 1/13/2019
Date Last Modified: 1/13/2019
Author: Brian Jordan (bjj17)

Plan
Variants of Breakout:
    When I was going through the different example videos of Breakout games that were provided and thinking back to
versions I played growing up, the Vortex iPod Nano version stuck out to me the most.  This version differed from others
by its seemingly 3 dimensional graphics.  The ball appears to travel into and out of the screen while being deflected by
the paddle that moves in a circle rotation around the outside edge of the screen.  Another unique aspect of the game is that the
bouncer travels through the blocks rather than reflecting off of them.  Overall, the quality of the graphics and the
uniqueness of the game play made this version stand out to me.
    The more basic version of the game that reflects the aspects of the original game play is the Arkanoid game.  This
is the version I am looking to the most for inspiration and ideas.  The score and remaining lives of the user are clearly
displayed on the screen.  The different levels also show examples of block configurations that could be used along with
a wide variety of power ups and extra additions that could be implemented.

Different Levels:
    Originally, I was thinking of how I could produce the game in order to have an educational aspect to it.  I thought
about making each level a letter in the alphabet to serve as a learning tool for children.  Because it would be difficult
to make that many levels in one week, I decided to make the game Duke themed.  Still following the idea of blocks being
arranged as letters, there will be 4 levels with each displaying a single letter in the order of D, U, K, and E.  I plan on
having the top part of the screen filled with blocks that are white with the specific letter spelled out in blue blocks.
With increasing levels, the ball speed will increase, then the paddle size will decrease, and finally the ball size
will decrease.  An example of a level layout is given in the Level1Example.jpg.

Block Types:
    The white blocks that will be surrounding the letters will require one hit to destroy.  The blue blocks that make
up the letter will require 2 hits to destroy.  There will be power up and power down blocks that are hidden as white or
blue blocks.  When these are destroyed, the certain power up or down will be implemented.  The power up or down will no
be in effect after a certain number of hits by the paddle or if another power up or down is achieved.  There will be
less power up and more power downs as the level increases.

Power Ups:
    The first power up or down will be increasing or decreasing the length of the paddle which will make it easier or harder
to deflect the bouncer back towards the block configuration.  The second will be increasing or decreasing the ball speed
which will allow more time to position the paddle between hits.  The third power up will be destroying the immediate
surrounding blocks of the one that produces the power up.

Cheat Keys: (implemented)
    I am planning on including a few cheat keys for helping to navigate levels of the game while debugging the program.
The first will be using the letter 'L' on the keyboard to advance to the next level before clearing all the blocks.  Along
the same lines, the numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4 will be used to navigate to the start of each respective level.  I also plan
on using the 'R' key to reset the blocks to the starting configuration of the current level.  The letter 'A' will also be
used to add an additional life to the current count.

Extra Feature:
    For my extra feature, I plan on making the paddle appear on the other side of the window when it is moved off of the
screen.  This is a feature of a few breakout versions and the iPhone game "Doodle Jump."  I feel this will provide an
interesting twist to the game and allow the user to quickly move the paddle to the other side of the window without having
to toggle across the entire width of the window.  It will also increase the difficulty because the user will have to
avoid toggling the paddle too far when close to the edge of the window.
    I also intend to add effects when the ball collides with a block.  I don't have experience with this but will explore
options for animations including a small flash or a burst.  The blue blocks will also change to white when they are first
hit to indicate that only one more collision is necessary to eliminate it.
